Daml intro (#1457)
digital-asset/daml: docs/source/daml/intro/1_Token.rst

  :lines: 1-6

Templates
---------

The type of a contract that can be created, and who has the right to do so, is defined in a ``template``. *Contracts* are instances of *templates*.

.. literalinclude:: daml/Intro_1_Token.daml
  :language: daml
  :lines: 13,18,22,26,31
  :caption: A Token template

Templates are declared starting with the ``template`` keyword and take a name as an argument. DAML is whitespace-aware and uses layout to structure *blocks*. Everything that's below the first line is indented, and thus part of the template's body.

*Contracts* on a DAML ledger contain data, often referred to as the *create arguments* or simply *arguments*. The ``with`` block starting in the second line defines the data type of the create arguments of a contract of type ``Token`` by listing field names and their types. The single colon ``:`` is read as "of type" so we can read the first three lines as "template Token with field owner of type ``Party``. ``Token`` contracts have a single field ``owner`` of type ``Party``. The fields declared in a template's ``with`` block are in scope in the rest of the template body, which is contained in a ``where`` block.

Signatories
-----------

> The ``signatory`` keyword specifies the *signatories* of a contract instance. Every contract must have at least one signatory. The *authority* of all the signatories of a contract are required to create or archive it again -- just like a real contract. Furthermore, DAML ledgers *guarantee* that parties see all transactions where their transaction is used, which means that signatories of a contract are guaranteed to see the creation and archival of that contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``signatory`` keyword specifies the *signatories* of a contract instance. Every contract must have at least one signatory. The *authority* of all the signatories of a contract are required to create or archive it again -- just like a real contract. Furthermore, DAML ledgers *guarantee* that parties see all transactions where their authority is used, which means that signatories of a contract are guaranteed to see the creation and archival of that contract.
```
`s/their transaction/their authority/`

.. Copyright (c) 2019 Digital Asset (Switzerland) GmbH and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.. SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

A Token Contract
================

The first DAML model you will write is a pretty useless one -- a self-issued, non-transferrable token. It represents the minimal possible DAML model and as such serves as an illustration of the most basic concepts:

- Transactions
- DAML Modules and Files
- Templates
- Contracts
- Signatories

For this section, create a new file called ``Intro_1_Token.daml`` and open it in DAML Studio. If you have installed the DAML SDK, you can start it with ``daml studio`` from a terminal or just open VS Code. Alternatively, use the :download:`supplied source file <daml/Intro_1_Token.daml>`.

DAML Ledger Basics
------------------

> 

Reviewer 2: Suggest adding: 
```suggestion

There are a few basic concepts you need to understand before you take a look at the DAML file you downloaded.

```

> Like most structures called ledgers, a DAML Ledger is a list of *commits*. A *commit* is the final result of the *submission* of a *transaction* by a *party*. The most basic *transactions* are the creation and archival of a *contract*. A contract is *active* on the ledger, if there is a committed transaction that creates it, but there is no commit that archives it again.

Reviewer 2: You're defining rather than explaining again. The way you've written implies users should already know what these concepts are, but I think it can be made clearer with a few tweaks.

```suggestion
Like most structures called ledgers, a DAML Ledger is ultimately just a list of *commits*. When we say *commit*, we mean the final result of when a *party* *submits* a *transaction* to that ledger. 

What is a *transaction*? The most basic examples are the creation and archival of a *contract*, which is a concept we'll cover in more detail through this introduction.

After a committed transaction that creates a contract, that contract is *active* on the ledger. But there can then be further commits that *archive* the contract, meaning it's no longer active.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: You've explained ledgers, but you haven't talked at all how DAML files come into it. Is it worth a sentence or two saying that DAML files define the contracts that can be created on the ledger?

.. Graphic with timeline inactive -> create -> active -> archive -> inactive

DAML Files and Modules
----------------------

> Each `.daml` file defines a *DAML Module*. At the top of each DAML file is a pragma informing the compiler of the language version and the module name:

Reviewer 2: As above - this leaps straight into daml files, but it needs a segue to make sense.

> Each `.daml` file defines a *DAML Module*. At the top of each DAML file is a pragma informing the compiler of the language version and the module name:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each ``.daml`` file defines a *DAML Module*. At the top of each DAML file is a pragma informing the compiler of the language version and the module name:
```

.. literalinclude:: daml/Intro_1_Token.daml
  :language: daml

>   :lines: 3, 6

Reviewer 2: I think these line numbers might be wrong? At least, it's currently only rendering one line. `start-after`/`end-before` would be ideal here.

Reviewer: Headers have been added after this was written, so I guess all line numbers are 3 lines off.

>   :lines: 3, 6

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  :lines: 6, 9
```

Code comments in DAML are introduced with `--`:

.. literalinclude:: daml/Intro_1_Token.daml
  :language: daml

>   :lines: 1-6

Reviewer 2: lines 4-6 might be better? Showing the copyright header is a bit confusing. And `start-after`/`end-before` would be ideal if we can use them.

>   :lines: 1-6

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  :lines: 4-9
```

Templates
---------

> The type of a contract that can be created, and who has the right to do so, is defined in a ``template``. *Contracts* are instances of *templates*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A ``template`` defines a type of contract that can be created, and who has the right to do so (the *signatories*). *Contracts* are instances of *templates*.
```

.. literalinclude:: daml/Intro_1_Token.daml
  :language: daml

>   :lines: 13,18,22,26,31

Reviewer 2: This reference is broken.

>   :lines: 13,18,22,26,31

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  :lines: 16,21,25,29,34
```

>   :caption: A Token template

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  :caption: A simple template
```

> Templates are declared starting with the ``template`` keyword and take a name as an argument. DAML is whitespace-aware and uses layout to structure *blocks*. Everything that's below the first line is indented, and thus part of the template's body.

Reviewer 2: Moving from passive voice to active, and breaking up the paragraph - the whitespace bit seems like a separate idea to me, it doesn't follow on.

```suggestion
You declare a template starting with the ``template`` keyword, which takes a name as an argument.

DAML is whitespace-aware and uses layout to structure *blocks*. Everything that's below the first line is indented, and thus part of the template's body.
```

> *Contracts* on a DAML ledger contain data, often referred to as the *create arguments* or simply *arguments*. The ``with`` block starting in the second line defines the data type of the create arguments of a contract of type ``Token`` by listing field names and their types. The single colon ``:`` is read as "of type" so we can read the first three lines as "template Token with field owner of type ``Party``. ``Token`` contracts have a single field ``owner`` of type ``Party``. The fields declared in a template's ``with`` block are in scope in the rest of the template body, which is contained in a ``where`` block.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*Contracts* contain data, often referred to as the *create arguments* or simply *arguments*. You can find these after the ``with`` block, which defines the data type of the create arguments of this contract by listing field names and their types. The single colon ``:`` means "of type", so you can read this as "template ``Token`` with a field ``owner`` of type ``Party``.

``Token`` contracts have a single field ``owner`` of type ``Party``. The fields declared in a template's ``with`` block are in scope in the rest of the template body, which is contained in a ``where`` block.
```

Signatories
-----------

> The ``signatory`` keyword specifies the *signatories* of a contract instance. Every contract must have at least one signatory. The *authority* of all the signatories of a contract are required to create or archive it again -- just like a real contract. Furthermore, DAML ledgers *guarantee* that parties see all transactions where their authority is used, which means that signatories of a contract are guaranteed to see the creation and archival of that contract.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The ``signatory`` keyword specifies the *signatories* of a contract instance. These are the parties whose *authority* is required to create the contract or archive it again -- just like a real contract. Every contract must have at least one signatory.

Furthermore, DAML ledgers *guarantee* that parties see all transactions where their authority is used. This means that signatories of a contract are guaranteed to see the creation and archival of that contract.
```
